after these deeds of faithfulness
Sennacherib king of Assyria came and
entered Judah he encamped against the
fortified cities thinking to win them
over to himself and when Hezekiah saw
that Sennacherib had come and that his
purpose was to make war against
Jerusalem he consulted with his leaders
and commanders to stop the water from
the springs which were outside the city
and they helped him thus many people
gathered together who stopped all the
springs and the brook that ran through
the land why should the kings of Assyria
come and find much water and he
strengthened himself built up all the
wall that was broken raised it up to the
towers and built another wall outside
also he repaired the Miller in the City
of David and made weapons and shields in
abundance then he sent military captains
over the people gathered them together
to him in the open square of the city
gates and gave them encouragement be
strong and courageous do not be afraid
not dismayed before the king of Assyria
know before all the multitude that is
with him but there are more with us than
with him with him is an arm of flesh but
with us is the Lord our God to help us
and to fight our battles the people were
strengthened by the words of Hezekiah
king of Judah
after this Sennacherib king of Assyria
sent his servants to Jerusalem but he
and all the forces with him laid siege
against lakish to Hezekiah king of Judah
and to all Judah who were in Jerusalem
thus says Sennacherib king of Assyria in
what do you trust that you remain under
siege in Jerusalem does not Hezekiah
persuade you to give yourselves over to
die by famine and by thirst saying the
Lord our God will deliver us from the
hand of the king of Assyria has not the
same Hezekiah taken away his high places
and his altars and commanded Judah and
Jerusalem saying you shall worship
before one altar and burn incense on it
do you not know what I and my father's
have done to all the peoples of other
lands were the gods of the nations of
those lands in any way able to deliver
their lands out of my hand
who was there among all the gods of
those nations that my father's utterly
destroyed that could deliver his people
from my hand that your God should be
able to deliver you from my hand
now therefore do not let Hezekiah
deceive you or persuade you like this
and do not believe
for no God of any nation or Kingdom was
able to deliver his people from my hand
or the hand of my father's how much less
will your God deliver you from my hand
furthermore his servant spoke against
the Lord God and against his servant
Hezekiah
he also wrote letters to revile the Lord
God of Israel and to speak against him
as the gods of the nations of other
lands have not delivered their people
from my hand so the god of Hezekiah will
not deliver his people from my hand then
they called out with a loud voice in
Hebrew to the people of Jerusalem who
are on the wall to frighten them and
trouble them that they might take the
city and they spoke against the God of
Jerusalem as against the gods of the
people of the earth the work of men's
hands now because of this King Hezekiah
and the prophet Isaiah the son of Amoz
prayed and cried out to heaven when the
Lord sent an angel who cut down every
mighty man of Valor leader and captain
in the camp of the king of Assyria so he
returned shamefaced to his own land and
when he had gone into the temple of his
God some of his own offspring struck him
down with a sword there thus the Lord
saved Hezekiah and the inhabitants of
Jerusalem from the hand of Sennacherib
the king of Assyria and from the hand of
all others and guided them on every side
and many brought gifts to the Lord at
Jerusalem and presents to Hezekiah king
of Judah so that he was exalted in the
sight of all nations there
after in those days Hezekiah was sick
and near death and he prayed to the Lord
and he spoke to him and gave him a sign
but Hezekiah did not repay according to
the favor shown him for his heart was
lifted up
therefore wrath was looming over him and
over Judah and Jerusalem then Hezekiah
humbled himself for the pride of his
heart he and the inhabitants of
Jerusalem so that the wrath of the Lord
did not come upon in the days of
Hezekiah Hezekiah had very great riches
and honour and he made himself
Treasuries for silver for gold for
precious stones for spices for shields
and for all kinds of desirable items
storehouses for the harvest of grain
wine and oil and stalls for all kinds of
livestock and folds for flocks moreover
he provided cities for himself and
possessions of flocks and herds in
abundance for God had given him very
much property this same Hezekiah also
stopped the water outlet of Apogee home
and brought the water by tunnel to the
west side of the City of David as a car
prospered in all his works however
regarding the ambassador's of the
princes of Babylon whom they sent to him
to enquire about the wonder that was
down in the land God withdrew from him
in order to test him that he might know
all that was in his heart now the rest
of the acts of Hezekiah and His goodness
indeed they are written in the vision of
Isaiah the prophet the son of Amos and
in the book of the kings of Judah and
Israel
so as a car rested with his father's and
they buried him in the upper tombs of
the sons of David and all Judah and the
inhabitants of Jerusalem honored him at
his death then Manasseh his son reigned
in his place